Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to do a little bit of fine tuning of our application.
So what we wanted to do is actually make cards local variable within the start function.
So what I want you to do now is actually I've already started this.
But what I want you to do now is pause the video and try to make cards local within a start deal.
So we don't want cards as a global value anymore we're trying to cut down as much as possible on these
global values.
So let's keep that locally.
And you can also do players as well if you want to but to keep it simpler let's just keep players global
and where you take cards locally within a start deal to pause the video and make this local make cards
local and let me show you the solution.
So basically we're going to get rid of it there we're going to get rid of it here as well and we're
going to use cards here and we're going to set up a variable called cards and passing it over to the
function build cards.
So within build cards we need an array.
So blank to work with.
So we might as well call it cards.
And the last thing that we need to do is hit return and return back the value of this array cards because
we use it within here and we're going to turn it back and when we returned back a value within a function
and then that basically means that this variable within this function is now going to get assigned that
set of values.
So basically we're building a deck of cards within this function and we're not using any global variables.
So now we've already set up that we're passing that value of cards.
And here we're also passing the value of cards in deal.
So there's actually nothing to change in there.
So this one was already set up that it would shuffle whatever rate gets sent in there.
And then this one we had early set it up that were passed and the value of cards in there.
So just make sure that you do have that and you are passing that in there.
Otherwise this function won't know what cards is and you're going to get an error when you try to call
back to cards.
So let's try it.
Let's refresh it deal to four people steal to two.
And we see that everything is working nice and neatly just as before but we were able to move this variable
from the global scope locally.
And this is going to be always a real benefit whenever you're building out applications.
If you can simplify it and if you can keep these variable values even the arrays keep as much as possible
locally within the function and within this set up we've got the four functions each one has its own
specific task within this application and that's usually how I use functions when I build out applications
I initiate a function to have its own set of tasks.
And that way I can call upon those tasks anywhere within the application.
So if you have something a whole lot more complex than this one and if all of a sudden you're and your.
You've created a game out of this and it calls for shuffling the cards.
You've got that function there.
If it calls for dealing the cards you've got that function there and ready to go.
And then also Also consider that you might have to bring that this back out within the global scope.
If you're trying to access these cards that are only available within this function so be careful be
cautious and be careful.
And use your Gobel values as sparingly as possible.
And also keeping in mind that if you want any other values within the card object you can add them in
here as well.
Sometimes what I'll do is if I want to then the value of it.
So maybe I can set another variable.
Call it V and I can just simply take the value of the index value that I'm looking at for C and I can
output it within value.
So basically.
And actually this one should be plus one.
So I'm going to wrap around that.
So the reason I'm doing a plus one is because my cards are my cards as we know arrays started 0 so I
need to add plus one to give it a value of 1.
Or actually my cards are starting at 2.
So let's start it up plus two.
Let's go back out refreshed.
Deal the cards go into our console and remember we've got cards within the local scope of the function
so we can still access them with players because that's a global scope.
Now we can see that each one of these objects.
So that is we're not adding it together because it's we need to convert that to a number so that let's
update that convert into a number and then we'll add 2 to it go back out refreshed and let's try that
again.
So deal it and two players and this time we should actually have the value for players of the card.
So let's open that up.
So we've got aces are worth 14 jacks are worth 11 sixes worth 6.
So we see we've got that value in there.
So go ahead.
Also try it to for yourself.
Add in some additional values within this object.
And then you can make use of it within the output as well.
So try that out for yourself and build out all of these functions and again try to keep things within
the local school as much as possible when you're utilizing functions and when you are building functions
think of them as having their own set of instructions within each function and running its own set of
code.
So typically we could have even done one here where we could have broken out this value here and we
could have created the players within a function.
So if we had more information per player we might want to do that as well.
So there are a number of different options available to us.